Intro
Field
Mysterious man
“Ugh... Hey, don’t just appear all of a sudden!”
You hear an annoyed voice from behind. You turn around and see a man glaring at you.

“You’re supposed to report when you use the-”
Suddenly, he stops, his face turns pale, and his eyes become wide open.



“How did you get here?! Crap!” he screams before turning around and taking off towards nearby woods.

You are so stunned by the interaction that by the time you think about following him, he’s already out of sight.



You didn’t recognize him, but he surely seemed to know you.

You try to remember who he might be, but then you realize something even stranger.

You have no memories prior to this moment.



Among the confusion, you decide to look around.

It looks like you are in a field.

There's a small hut in the distance with smoke coming out of its chimney and a fence around its backyard.
Looking closer you notice an old man peeking through a window from inside the hut.

He notices you, sprints towards the door, flings it open, and rushes in your direction.



Old man 1
“Another one of you!” he exclaims with excitement.

“I know you’re confused and don’t remember how you got here, but listen, this is important if you want to survive here.” he continues.



“This is a world where words run around everywhere. Most of them are harmless but some of them can be vicious and will attack you at sight.

Some outlaws even capture and use them to attack people.

In order to protect yourself you need to be able to read those words.
If you figure out the correct spelling of a word it can’t harm you.”



The old man notices your bewilderment and points to a group of words surrounded by the fence in the hut’s backyard.

“It will make more sense in practice. Here, try sparring against some of the words I’ve captured. That should help you prepare yourself for future battles.” he says while leading you inside the fence.


“One last thing, you have 60 seconds to figure out how to read each word.

If you can’t do it you can avoid a word up to 3 times during a single battle!” (By submitting an empty answer.)

“If you don’t answer or avoid within the time limit, you lose.”

As he finishes talking the words jump at you, and the battle starts.



Fenced words (battle)
The words attack you, but you decide to hold your ground.



The words run away towards the edges of the fenced area.
It seems like they've lost all will to fight.

Old man 2
After a not so fierce battle the old man taps your shoulder and says

“Great job! With battle skills like that you have nothing to worry about going forward!

But just in case you end up struggling against some future opponent, remember that you can always train and practice!” (In either “Learning mode” or “Practice mode”. The levels you see in the parenthesis on the menu options are the recommended “Learning mode” levels to have beaten before challenging that part of the story.)



“Now that you’re fully prepared you might want to begin your adventure!

A good start would be to go to the closest village!
You’re in luck because it’s not far from here, just past that forest.” he says while pointing.

“There’s also a pond on the way there where you can take a short break.”



“That’s all, now, on your way! Good luck!” he pats your back a few times while merrily laughing and returns to his hut.

You’re no less confused than before, but you need to get going.
The sun is starting to go down and you need a safe place to stay before the night sets in.

Forest
Forest 1
You walk on a trail through the forest.

There are trees and bushes all over, the birds are chirping, animals are frolicking, and sunshine is coming through the leaves overhead.

The scenery feels peaceful and idyllic.



You keep looking around, hoping to find the mysterious man, but you don’t see anyone.

Suddenly, you notice subtle rustling in the nearby bushes.

You decide to check it out, thinking maybe it’s him.



You walk up to the bushes, and a word jumps out from them.
You’re disappointed and decide to walk away.

Until you get jumped by words emerging from all around.



Forest 2 (battle)
You are taken by surprise, but still decide to fight back against the words.



You come up victorious from your first real battle, and, as the words scramble away, you continue with your journey through the forest.


Pond
Pond 1
After walking for a little bit longer you come across the pond the old man told you about.

The water is calm, on the opposite side of the pond there’s a small deer eating berries from a nearby bush, and a plethora of other animals feeding themselves and quenching their thirst.



You decide to rest here for a moment, but first, learning from the previous experience, you check behind every tree, bush or rock in the vicinity to make sure there are no rouge words around waiting to attack you.

Having confirmed there’s none you sit down on a nearby rock and relax.



After a few moments you hear a voice from behind you.

“What are you doing?”

You turn around and see a young lady, wearing a sporty outfit, looking at you with a puzzled expression, as if you were a village idiot.

“That’s dangerous, you know? Sitting alone. Not paying attention to your surroundings.”

She pauses for a moment, probably waiting for a response, but, after noticing your consternation, continues talking.

“Anyway, we shouldn’t stay here for too long or feral words will come and-” before she finishes speaking a group of words jumps out of the pond.

“Watch out!” she shouts as the words leap at you.

Pond 2 (battle)
You get ambushed by the words and fight back together with the lady.



Together, you beat all the words that emerge from the pond.
Pond 3
After the fight you explain the situation to the lady.

“Oh, okay. Yeah, I guess if you just came from our world you might not know. No place is safe, no matter how thoroughly you check your surroundings the words can still be hiding somewhere, in the water, on top of trees or even underground!” she explains vigorously.

That’s valuable information, but one part especially catches your attention so you decide to ask about it.



“Oh, right, I haven’t told you yet. Yes, I also come from the same world. I ended up here not long before you.
Damn that old geezer, he also told you to rest near the pond?
I almost died because of him. Don’t listen to his advice, I don’t know what he’s trying to do but it doesn’t seem to be helping us.” she says with a pouting face.

“Apparently you’re not supposed to travel long distances alone.
If you need to take a break along the way, you should bring a companion so you can alternate keeping watch while the other person is resting.
That’s why I wasn’t able to leave the village up ahead, where I’m staying.” she continues, pointing in the direction of the village.

“Anyway, let’s go. The village is not too far from here, and we shouldn’t stay in one place for too long or you know what’s coming.” she beckons you with a smile and you follow her to the village.



On the way to the village
“Oh, right. I forgot to introduce myself! I’m Harumi, nice to meet you!” your new companion says, introducing herself.

“Or, at least that’s what everyone calls me in the village; I don’t remember my real name, or anything at all, just like you.” she adds while apologetically smiling.



After a short conversation Harumi turns to you, starts waving her hands energetically, and says with excitement.

“Oh, I forgot to tell you about one more cool thing! Here, see this.”

She grins and puts her finger up before continuing.



“Sky is blue.
[そら|sky] is [あおい|blue].”

“You see, in this world when people talk sometimes the words they say turn into Japanese!” she [いう|says] proudly, as if she was the one who discovered it.

“Also, you can still see the meanings of those words if you try hard enough!” (Hover over them, click on them, or press shift. Press shift repeatedly to cycle through them.)



“I learned this from grandma! I mean, an old lady who owns the inn I’m staying at in the village!
Cool, isn’t it?” she looks at you with sparkling eyes, supposedly seeking approval.

“Hey, look! A squirrel!” before you can answer [かのじょ|she] excitedly runs up to a nearby tree while pointing at the rodent in the branches.

Despite some distractions, the two of you continue on your way, and not before long arrive at the village’s gate.


Village
Gate
Before
The village is surrounded by a wooden palisade the height of about two meters (about seven feet).

More crucially, there’s also a closed gate leading inside the [むら|village], around which a sizable group of words has gathered.



“Sometimes words flock around the gate but this number is a little much. Usually there’s only a few.” Harumi says.

“Anyway, they won’t open the [もん|gate] if there are words around; let’s beat’em up!
You attack from the left side, I take the right!” she continues, and eagerly rushes into combat before you have time to answer.

You follow her lead and join the fight.



Battle
The words seem focused on Harumi as you circle around them and strike them from behind.



You and Harumi defeat the majority of the words gathered by the village’s palisade, while the remaining ones run away.



After
“Seems like it’s all cleaned up!” Harumi exclaims proudly before facing towards the gate.

“Hey! There are no more words around the [もん|gate]! You can open it now!” she shouts, but there’s no response.

“Weird, there should be some guards near the [もん|gate] to [あける|open (something)] it when there’s no danger anymore.” [かのじょ|she] says with a perplexed face when the [もん|gate] still doesn’t [あく|open (itself)] after a moment.

“I’ll take a look. Stay here.” [かのじょ|she] continues before swiftly climbing the wall and peeking into the other side.



“Oh, no!” she shouts and immediately hops over the fortification, into the village.

After a short moment the [もん|gate] [あく|opens (itself)] and you see a terrible scene.

The whole [むら|village] is filled with words and people fighting them.

Some defenders have proper equipment, like swords and shields, these are probably the guards, but some are only armed with improvised weapons, like pitchforks.

Everyone else is either desperately running towards the closest building, or already barricaded inside.



“Come on, we need to help!” you hear Harumi’s voice before you notice her plunge into battle.

You rush inside to support the villagers.



Village
Battle
You join the battle and strike at the closest enemy.



The battle is over. All words have been either defeated, or repelled away from the village.



After
After things have calmed down Harumi comes towards one of the guards and asks.
“What happened here? Where did all those words come from?”

“We don’t know, they just suddenly appeared inside the village.” the guard answers.

“Someone had to bring them in, there’s no way they could enter on their own!” another nearby guard shouts after hearing the conversation.



You ask if they could’ve come from underground, as warned by Harumi before, but one of the guards responds.

“No chance. The palisade is buried deep underground, deeper than any word can dig. This was a deliberate attack!”

“But who would do something like this?” Harumi asks with a frown.



“Waaah!”
Suddenly, you hear a child start crying.



Crying child
Before
Looking in the direction the cry is coming from, you see a little girl bawling her eyes out.
You approach her and ask what's wrong.

“Someone stole my... Waaah!!!” while still [ないてる|crying], she points at a man running away just past the village gate.



You start chasing the man, eventually almost catching up to him but he immediately attacks you.



Battle
The man sends out a big group of words in your direction to avoid getting caught.



You manage to beat all the words, but lose track of the man.



After
When you were too busy fighting words to notice, Harumi sprinted past you, caught up with the man, and apprehended him.

Apparently the words he sent out at you were his last ones.



“It’s you again?!” he asks nervously after seeing you.
You realize that this is the man you were looking for.

“Do you know him?” Harumi asks you, visibly confused.

You explain your first encounter with the [おとこ|man] to her.

“Playing stupid, huh? Whatever, not like I care.” the [おとこ|man] rebukes, not believing in your memory loss.



He refuses to speak anymore, so you give up on trying to find out more from him.

You search him for stolen goods and retrieve an old map.
Then you bring him back to the village.



“Better watch your back from now on! We, the Aku no Soshiki, will never forget this!” he yells when you hand him over to the guards.

You don’t know who the “Aku no Soshiki” is, but it doesn't seem important right now.
You return to the little girl.

After 2?


“That’s my treasure map!” she says as her face lights up.
“This is the last thing my grandpa left me.” [かのじょ|she] continues.

You return the [ちず|map] [かのじょ へ|to her (へ - grammar particle read as “e”)] and [かのじょ|she] looks at it for a moment, looks back at you, and continues.

“Do you think you can find this [たから|treasure]? If you promise to split it with me, you can borrow my [ちず|map]!”



You think about it for a moment when Harumi interjects.
“We should take it!

That man we caught, he said he was from some organization? The ‘Aku no Soshiki’ or whatnot?

If they still want this [ちず|map] they will probably come looking for us to get it back.”



“That guy seemed to know you from our world, so maybe other members also do? If we meet them we could learn about our pasts, and maybe even how to go back to our world!” she continues excitedly.

“We lost our memories from before coming here, but maybe not everyone does?” [かのじょ|she] finishes [かのじょ の|her] thought.



You agree, and decide to accept the deal, much to the little girl’s content.

You receive the [ちず|map], and decide to prepare for your upcoming journey following the [ちず の|map’s] guidance with the goal of tracking down the “Aku no Soshiki”.



After 3? Gathering information
In order to gather more information, you ask the little girl if she knows what kind of treasure the map is leading to, but neither she, nor her parents seem to know.

[かのじょ の|Her] mother only tells you that the grandpa, who left the map, would often be away from home for months at a time for work, but no one really knows what he was doing then, or what kind of work [かれ|he] was performing. They don’t know where [かれ|he] got the [ちず|map] from, either.



You also try talking to the captured Aku no Soshiki member, but he stubbornly remains silent.

Because of that, you decide to ask the villagers what they know about the group, and [あなた|you] find out it’s a criminal organization who uses captured words to commit their crimes.

Unfortunately, apparently not much is known about their motives or whereabouts.



Having collected all the information you could, [あなた|you] and Harumi gather necessary supplies for the journey, and leave the village the next morning.

“Okay, let’s see, according to the map the first place we need to aim for is...” Harumi says while checking the [ちず|map].

“The Chiropteran... C-Cave?” she stumbles over her words for a moment, looking quite distraught.



Cave?
Before 1?
You arrive at the cave’s entrance, and Harumi is visibly anxious. 
She’s been acting strange the entire way to the cave, but she got even worse after actually reaching it. Right now, she’s standing behind your back and trembling with fear.

You ask her what’s wrong, but she just answers.
“N-Nothing, come on, let’s go.” and pushes your back.

You’re a little concerned about her, but if she doesn’t want to tell you what’s going on, there’s not much you can do, so you pull out a torch, and enter the cave, with Harumi following closely behind.



The cave is dark, lit only by the light of your torch. There are water droplets dripping from the ceiling, resonating every time they reach the floor.

Suddenly, a swarm of bats flies overhead.
“Aaaa!” Harumi shrieks, cowers in fear, and covers her head.

You got startled. Not by the bats, but by Harumi’s scream.
Once you realize what happened, you turn around and ask her what’s wrong.



“N-Nothing.... I... I just don’t like bats...” she responds with a shaking voice and tears in her eyes.
“L-Let’s go, I don’t want to stay here for too long...” she adds as she stands up and starts pushing you forward.

It doesn’t seem like she wants to talk about it any further, so you decide to just keep going and get out of this cave as soon as possible.



Before 2?
“Finally, we’re almost out!” Harumi exclaims as you notice the exit, and finally see some natural light for a change.

Thankfully, she seems completely relieved of the fear that accompanied her all the way through the cave.

“At least we didn’t get attacked by any words this time!” she continues, with a big smile on her face.

Then you hear a little squishy sound.



“Huh? I think I stepped on something..." says Harumi, and the attention of both of you gets directed towards what’s under her feet.

“Wah?!” she recoils after seeing what she has just stepped on.

It was a word.



Battle
The word seems to have called for reinforcements, as other words suddenly appear and attack you.



You and Harumi beat most of them, as the rest run away in all directions.



After
“Whew, good riddance.” Harumi says with her hands on her hips, seemingly relieved after the battle.

“Let’s see, by now we should be... Oh, there! You can see it!” she starts speaking while checking the map, and then pointing ahead right after.



“[First City], our next destination! If we keep going we should make it by sunset.” she says with a bright smile.

“Come on, let’s keep going. I want to get away from this cave as soon as possible.” she continues, nudging you forwards, and the two of you resume your journey with a new destination.
First city Akamachi
Arrival
You arrive in Akamachi city. This time, thankfully, with no issues at the gate.

The city is surrounded by a brick wall, all buildings in the vicinity are also built with brick, all of them red. Most of the roofs around are also red. According to the map, the city’s name apparently means “Red City”. The origin of the name seems quite obvious looking at your surroundings.

“We’re finally here. Okay, let’s find an inn before the sun comes down.” Harumi says while stretching.



“Hm?” a moment later, she starts looking around in all directions.

You wonder what’s wrong, but then it hits you too.

You’re being watched.



You lock eyes with Harumi, both of you with stern expressions.

“Let’s go.” she says.

You nod in agreement, and together you start looking for an inn, when suddenly.



“Aaaaa!” you hear a piercing scream coming from the nearby square.

Harumi immediately rushes towards there, with you following closely behind, and when there, you find a woman, terrified, lying on the ground, seemingly the source of the scream, surrounded by words, with everyone around in panic.



Distressed woman 1
“Help!” she shouts as soon as she notices you.

“You two, please, help!” she continues to shout while looking straight at you, and reaching her hand in your direction.

“Don’t worry, everything will be fine!” Harumi responds as she plunges into combat, with you following shortly after.



Battle 1
You and Harumi attack the words surrounding the distressed woman.



Most of the words run away soon after the first few are defeated.



Distressed woman 2
“Oh, thank you! What would I have done if it wasn’t for you.” the woman says while approaching Harumi with open arms.

“No problem, it’s- h-huh?” as Harumi responds, the woman suddenly hugs her.



“Thank you so much once again, now, farewell, my heroes.” the woman says after letting go of Harumi, who’s just standing there with a blank expression.

As the woman walks away, Harumi, seemingly having noticed something wrong, pats her pockets. Then, she points at the woman and shouts.
“Hey, she stole the map!”



Distressed woman 3
The woman starts running away, and you and Harumi chase after her.

Unfortunately for her, as she enters a long alley, you two split up, Harumi going around, and together, you cut off her path, you from behind, and Harumi from ahead.



“Tch! How pesky of you.” the woman says after she notices she has no way to escape.

“Take this!” she continues while sending out words to fight you.



Battle 2
You get attacked by the words the woman sent out.



You beat your half of the words, with Harumi also beating hers.



Distressed woman 4
You apprehend the woman, and ask why she tried to steal the map.

“Because the boss told me to, duh.” she answers.

It became clear that she is, in fact, a member of Aku no Soshiki, but she doesn’t seem to know much of anything about you, the map, or the organization. It seems she’s just a low level grunt.



After being unable to extract any more valuable information from her you hand her over to the guards and start looking for an inn.

Unfortunately, even after the woman is arrested, you still have a feeling of being watched.



You manage to find a place to stay for the night, you eat dinner, and being cautious about your experience in the city so far, you make sure to properly lock the door to your room.

Thankfully, the night passes without an incident, and early in the morning you arrive at the city gate.



Unfortunately, as soon as you leave the city, you are approached by three suspicious looking men.



Suspicious men 1
“I’ll be straight to the point. Give me the map, and no one will get hurt.” one of the men says.

“I didn’t want to do this, but what can I do after she failed.” he continues, seemingly referring to the woman who tried to rob you earlier. As expected, these men also seem to be connected to Aku no Soshiki.

“Why do you want this map so badly anyway?” Harumi asks him.

“That’s none of your business, now, give it to me, or you will regret it.” he responds.



“Make me.” she says before mockingly sticking out her tongue.

“I didn’t want to resort to these kinds of measures, but you leave me no choice.” he says while all three of them send out words to fight you.



Battle 3
You and Harumi get attacked by the words sent out by the suspicious men.



After a tough battle you manage to beat all of the words sent out.



Suspicious men 2
“W-What? Y-You, you won?” the man says in disbelief.
All three of them seem completely shocked at your performance.

“Damn, skedaddle!” he says before they all start running away.

“Not so fast!” Harumi shouts before giving chase.



The two underlings manage to escape, but Harumi successfully captures the man you were talking to the entire time.

“Oh come on...” he laments his capture.

“Now tell me, do you know either of us?” she asks him, motioning at you.



“So, you really did lose your memory, huh?” he answers, smirking.

“I’m the one asking questions here!” she doesn’t back down, and slightly twists the man’s arm.

“Ugh... Okay, okay. I don’t know you, girl, but the other one is an agent, like, law enforcement, or something, who was tracking us down back in the other world. That’s all I know, I don’t know your names or why you’re here or anything.” he reveals, visibly in pain.



“Why does your boss want the map?” she continues the questioning.

“I don’t know, he just says it’s top priority.” he answers without revealing much.



He doesn’t seem to know much more, and vehemently refuses to tell you the location of their hideout, so Harumi finishes her questioning, and hands him over to the guards.

“Turns out you’re in law enforcement, agent! Maybe you’re on a secret mission?” Harumi says, laughing and nudging you with her elbow. You’re not any less surprised than her.

“I wonder if there’s a connection between both of us coming here... Hey, maybe I’m an agent too?! Wouldn’t that be cool?” she adds cheerfully.



“Anyway, now we can finally move one to the next destination. Let’s see...” Harumi checks the map again after all is said and done.

“Our next destination is the... nearby swamp?”



Swamp
Swamp 1
After leaving the [First City] you arrive at your next destination, a nearby swamp.

According to the map, this place is extremely dangerous, not only is it filled to the brim with words, but also there’s toxic swamp gas filling the air making staying here for too long highly hazardous, or even deadly. If you’re going to go through this place, you need to do it quickly.



“Hey, look! A snake!” Harumi exclaimed happily, smiling from ear to ear, running towards and pointing at a snake that’s slithering on the ground.

You would never expect anyone to have as much fun at a swamp as Harumi seems to have right now. She’s excitedly running around, finding snakes, frogs, dragonflies, and all sorts of other creatures.

As you’re about to tell her to be careful about where she’s walking, the place not being particularly safe to run around mindlessly, what you expected to happen, happens.



“Uaa!” Harumi cries out as she falls into a bog, with water all the way up to her waist.

“I-I think I’m stuck...” she says apologetically, being unable to free herself despite all attempts to twist her body and reach one of the nearby plants to try to pull herself out.



“Oh no!” she yells out, noticing a terrible situation.

Both of you became surrounded by words, and she cannot move.



Battle 1
The words strike and you fight back, with Harumi being unable to help this time, still being stuck in the bog.



You fight valiantly, protecting not only yourself, but also immobilized Harumi, and manage to repel the assault.



Swamp 2
After the battle you help pull Harumi out of the bog and tell her to be more careful.

“Sorry... and thanks.” she responds with remorse.

Then, a moment later, her face lights up looking in the distance.



“Look! Is that a ghost?!” she exclaims pointing the other way.

You look, and see a floating light in the distance, probably just a will-o'-wisp.

“Let’s go! I want to see a ghost!” she says full of excitement, as she takes off in the direction of the light. All remorse from the recent situation seemingly completely gone.

At least the direction the light comes from, and your planned route, match up, so going to check it out isn’t going to incur any delays.



Swamp 3
Despite a few minor incursions along the way, you manage to reach the supposed location of the “ghost”.

“This smell... is killing me...” Harumi laments, covering her nose, and you can’t help but do the same.



The source of the smell, and most likely the “ghost” is a giant bog emitting immeasurable amounts of gas. The surrounding area is completely filled with its foul odor.

You point out that the “ghost” was most likely just a will-o’-wisp caused by the gas spontaneously igniting, causing Harumi’s visible disappointment.

“Well, I wish I could’ve seen a ghost, but will-o’-wisp are pretty cool too, I guess.” she seems to get over it pretty quickly.

Suddenly, she trips and almost falls to the ground.



You ask if she’s okay, and at the same time, you start feeling what probably caused her to trip.

“I feel... a little dizzy...” she mutters, putting her hand or her head.

You feel it too, it’s probably all the toxic gas getting to both of you.



You decide to hurry, as it doesn’t seem safe to stay in the swamp for much longer.

“Oh no, this isn't the best time for this...” Harumi says, when, unfortunately, a group of words comes at you from all directions.



Battle 2
The words attack as both of you are weakened by the toxic gas.



Somehow, you manage to repel the attack.



Swamp 4
“That was tough; let’s go- huh?” Harumi stops mid-sentence, noticing something.

“Look, over there! Someone’s on the ground!” she adds, pointing at a person lying without movement, not far away.



You run up to the person, and notice they’re also surrounded by words.

“Oh, come on. Do they always attack people at their weakest?” Harumi utters.

But there’s no time for divagation, in order to help the unconscious person you need to fight the words again.



Battle 3
You attack the words surrounding the unconscious person.



After beating most of the words, the rest scatters in all directions.



Swamp 5
“The map sure didn’t lie about there being a ton of words in here...” Harumi says tiredly after scraping a victory against the words, as both of you run up to the downed person.

Coming closer you realize it’s a man, still breathing, but completely unconscious.

“What’s this?” Harumi says while holding up a piece of cloth she found on the man.



“It has an emblem on it... it says ‘Aku no Soshiki’!” she adds astounded.

He was probably lying here in ambush waiting for you, trying to steal the treasure map again. You discuss if it’s even safe to help him, fearing it might be another one of their ploys, remembering the situation in Akamachi.



“I-I guess it could, but, what if it isn’t? Sure, they’re criminals, but I still don’t want them to die...” Harumi responds.

“We need to bring him out of the swamp, he might not make it otherwise!” she adds.

After a little deliberation you decide that it is the right thing to do after all, so you agree and the two of you start carrying the man together.

You also shouldn't stay in the swamp much longer, already being affected by the gas yourselves, and helping the man is probably faster than trying to convince Harumi to leave him here.



Swamp 6
“This is tough... Why is he so heavy..." Harumi mutters while carrying the man.

You tell her to keep going for just a little more, you can already see the swamp getting thinner and thinner, indicating you’re close to leaving it.

“Okay, okay... Oh, come on, it’s these things again?!” she says after noticing another problem.



“They really seem to wait for the most vulnerable moment to attack, huh.” she adds.

You can’t help but agree, when you see a big group of words creeping up on you.

You put the man down for a moment to engage the words.



Battle 4
Both of you brace for the attack, having to not only defend yourselves, but also the unconscious man behind you.



You manage to defeat most of the words, the rest running away as usual.



Swamp 7
“I hope this is the last time, I really need a break.” Harumi says, seeming completely exhausted from the battle, the toxic gas, and carrying the man.

Thankfully, after leaving the swamp both of you feel significantly better, and manage to keep going without much further trouble, eventually reaching the closest village.


Sometime later at a camp?
Before
“Wake up!”
While sleeping, you suddenly hear Harumi’s voice.
“We’re about to get attacked!”



You open your eyes and find yourself surrounded by words.
Thankfully, Harumi was keeping watch when it was your turn to sleep.

You jolt awake, and prepare to battle before the words attack.



Battle
You stand back to back with Harumi as the words attack you from every direction.



You repel the attack for long enough that the words lose interest and leave.



After
That was a tough one, but you managed to pull through.

“Aaaa!” Harumi shrieks.
Just as you thought it was over, you prepare for another attack.



... But it never comes?

You look at Harumi and see her cowering in fear and covering her head.

“Eek, eek!” you hear from above.
There’s a bat flying overhead.

You shoo the bat away, and tell her it’s gone.



“T-Thanks...” she slowly stands up, still shivering a little.

You find her fear of bats really unusual; she seems to be perfectly fine with most other things, like bugs or snakes, and quite fearless in the face of danger, like criminals or words.
You decide to ask her about it.



“W-Well, it’s just... When I was little I went to a cave, and a bat got stuck in my hair. I ran home crying and screaming with the bat flailing around on my head the entire time. My parents had to cut my hair to remove it because they couldn’t untangle it. It was horrible!” she answers, getting even more visibly shaken, seemingly due to her remembering a painful memory.



Something feels off, though. Hasn’t she also lost her memory? How can she remember that? Has she regained it? You ask her about that.

“Oh, right, how do I remember that? Hmm...” she says, seemingly even more confused than you, and starts thinking.

“No, that’s all I can remember. I guess the memory comes back in parts, not all at once.” she continues.

“Can you remember anything?” she asks back.



You think about it, but no, your past is still as much of a mystery to you as it was before, so you shake your head.

“Well, at least we know it comes back eventually. I just wish it would start with more happy memories. Why is the only thing I remember, that?!” the more she talks, the more she pouts, as if being upset at the memory recovery process, if that’s even a thing.

Anyway, as the danger is no more, you decide to go back to sleep.



Right after the main story? Post game start?
After the final battle with [villain], the Aku no Soshiki, having lost its leader, disbanded.
That doesn’t mean, however, that there is nothing left to do; you still need to go back to your original world.

Having studied a bunch of documents found at Aku no Soshiki’s hideout, you strongly suspect that the portal to the other world is located on [island].



In order to get there you need to take a ship from the port in [some village/city].
For that reason you and Harumi are back at an inn near the port. It’s the last evening before your planned departure, waiting for the ship to be ready.

The two of you sit at a table, and Harumi is playing with her new pet.



She’s smiling while looking at her pet bat chewing on a berry.

You’re astounded, just a few days ago she was terrified of them, and now she has one as a pet? You decide to ask her about it.



“Well, I am still scared of bats, but I felt sorry for this one. He was laying on the ground with a broken wing, just outside the [final cave], so I decided to take care of him.” she answers while gently patting the bat’s head.

“And, this one isn’t so bad. If you look closely, he’s actually kinda cute!”

“I wanted to release him back where he came from after he recovered, but he didn’t seem to want to leave, so I guess I’m just going to keep him.”



“I called him Batbat!” she exclaims proudly.

Harumi has many qualities, naming sense apparently not being one of them.



After a short conversation you decide to call it a day and go to sleep.
You do need to get up early tomorrow to board the ship, after all.
